---
layout: post
title:      "The First Project: My CLI Data Gem"
date:       2021-02-22 23:55:58 +0000
permalink:  the_first_project_my_cli_data_gem
---

**I hope you're ready, because this is a lot.**

As this is my first portfolio project, I could not have been more excited to start. I had been going through curriculum quite quickly, I was, for the most part, understanding all of the concepts that were presented to me, and if nothing else, I had what I though to be a great first idea. I was so determined to start and to make this first project a great one. However, as most of us likely know, things don't always go according to plan.

Amidst a pandemic, things at work were beginning to look, well...bad. I work in a school, and a school for children with autism nonetheless. The school was shut down several times, staffing was awful, I was moved out of my classroom to a room full of new students, etcetera. The details are not that important, but what is important is that I was feeling burnt out. My studies, and my progress dwindled. Furthermore, the initial idea that I had, which was to build a gem that could find you spells for Dungeons and Dragons(!), could  organize them, and then provide details on them based on how you wanted them sorted. I started the app by psuedo-coding a lot of the processes out and making some of the CLI just to find out that the website was not easily scraped with the knowledge I had at the time. But I was determined to make it work. I spent weeks attempting to find where I could scrape the data that I needed and I just could not do it. I needed a new gameplan. At this point, not only am I struggling from my work week, but worse, I'm suffering from some extreme imposter syndrome. At this point, I was feeling defeated, and quite frankly, I wasn't feeling the passion I was when I started. But that's not where this ends. 

Now, beyond the doom and gloom. I had a new idea. Take a similar approach. Find information, list the information, and then if the user wants more information on an item in the list, well we're gonna give it to them. My new idea was to take a list of the best selling games of all time, list them out cleanly for the user, and if the use picked a specific game by number out of the list, give them the name of the game, who made it, how it sold, and when I was released. All this, then make it pretty, and thus more readabe. If you can't tell by now based on where my head has been at with this application, I am very much that stereotypical nerd, fortunately or unfortunately. Now, again, I was having a hard time scraping only the information I wanted. I had to use the scraper checker (best tool ever by the way) several times before I isolated only the information from the chart that I needed. This was not only a huge learning opportunity for me, but a huge win that reinvigorated that spark, that passion, that I first felt. It was so simple, but it felt so rewarding to finally make some tangible progress. But again, nothing ever goes according to plan, so my next hurdle was figuring out how to make this information simple to read. There was only so much a `.text` was going to do for me. So next is figuring out how to separate the information in each row into individual, usable pieces, which my mind immediately went to `.split`. These two methods were the only two no-brainer parts of the iterations I planned on implementing. This is because there were extra little "\n" marks that were left with from the nodes in the data I was scraping, which were a tad annoying because I had split by the string "\n\n", so there were more that I wasn't aware of and couldn't split by. Okay, easy, let's `.gsub`. Now I was left with the "[a]" or a "[b]" or so on in various places of the text for links, which I did not need either. All this to say, this `.gsub` went from being a really simple string to replace with nothing, to regex that I was not able to entirely get to work properly in all places...so I did two separate `.gsub` 's and that did the trick. Going forward, iterating over this information was the easy part, putting it into an array, separating the pieces of the array to various aspects of an instance of a game class, stuff that we all have practiced or will practice more than a handful of times. 

Finally, I got my code to work. Install, call, require input, look at list, and if you're feeling adventurous (and if you ever use my completed gem, please, I beg you, be adventurous. I'm proud of the work I did albeit a small first app), another input will get you more information with some colors thrown in the mix.

**All this to say: I love what I'm doing.**

I was in my own head for a long time. A lot longer than I needed to be. This wasn't how I planned on doing my first blog post, I wanted to be cool, calm, and collected, but if all this can help even one person keep pursuing something they love, then so be it. I thought I wasn't good enough for the longest time. The imposter syndrome hit hard, even though Flatiron warned us of it in the beginning, and because of it, I lost so much time. If anyone is reading this is going through the same thing, just know that you can do it. There are going to be times that you feel like you can't, but all it takes is some refactoring, reorganizing, and maybe looking at things from a different perspective. Honestly, isn't that what writing code is all about? I love what I do again, and I cannot wait to do another project with the passion and the confidence that I have now. 
